If you've made it to this point, congratulations! You're a regular text 
conversion guru! So now what? Here are some miscellaneous topics in no
particular order.

Other texts:

I didn't give you the JPS (Jewish Publication Society) text. That's because
I haven't located a copy yet. When searching for a JPS text, be careful
Most of them are in English!

And then there's the Koren text. This isn't exactly a text. Koren is a 
publisher. In Israel they're proud of the Koren text. It's the official
government sanctioned and approved text of the nation.

Commercial software packages tend to have the Koren text. Of course, 
commercial software packages always have End User License Agreements which
no one ever reads. And it's a pretty good bet that the EULA for any given
commercial software package will contain some prohibition or other against
extracting the Bible text it contains.

If you do extract said text, you could end up in court. It's not likely,
but you're taking a risk. Also, if you did extract said text, and compared
it to another alleged copy of the same version, you'd find that the two
allegedly identical copies of the identical version were not indeed
identical!

What's going on here? This is my opinion, and it's only an opinion. So no
flames please! The software publishers deliberately introduce variant
readings in order to watermark the text. This is easy to do because the
Hebrew language has rather loose spelling. In particular it has optional
characters called "matres lectionis" which stand in for vowels. So a few
extra vav's and yod's here and there, and the text is unique. Keep this in
mind if you decide to extract a Tanach from a commercial product, and then
pass it around to your friends.

Printed Tanachs:

You should have a printed copy of every Tanach you intend to work with. This
will give you a valuable reference you can check when the electronic text is
in doubt. Whenever possible, purchase a printed version that contains the
variant readings. Some have them, and some don't. The variant readings are
valuable resources for determining the original form of the text.

Most printed Tanachs have obvious titles like "Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia", 
"Koren Classic Tanach", or "JPS Hebrew-English Tanach". One that's not so 
obvious is the "Keter Crown Bible"; this is the Aleppo codex. The BHS is the 
Leningrad codex, and the Westminster Leningrad Codex is derived from the BHS.

The Hebrew Language:

I don't know the Hebrew language, but I know the letters, the vowel points
(the nikud), and the number values of the letters. It's fairly easy to work 
with the transliterated text of the Hebrew Tanach, but at a minimum you 
will need to learn the alphabet if you are going to use any reference works 
in Hebrew. There are lots of resources out there that will help you learn the
Aleph-Beth. You could start with Wikipedia.

You can use a web tool to translate words and short phrases. Here's the URL:

http://www.doitinhebrew.com/Translate/default.aspx?kb=IL+Hebrew

You can also translate a whole web page by submitting its URL to:

http://translate.google.com/

The Goal:

I'm collecting all these Tanachs to do computer assisted research on the
texts. I'm particularly interested in the question, "What did the original
text of the Tanach look like when it was written by the Spirit of God?" 
There's a method to my madness, and I intend to pursue this madness for as
long as the good Lord gives me the strength to carry on.

I have another document that explores this topic in more detail, but I 
won't be releasing it until I have more data to substantiate what I think I
know.

Perhaps you will join me in this endeavor. I call it "The Tanach Quest".

A. Nimus



