July 24, 2013

The goal of this project is to establish the original
text of the Tanach by mathmatical means. To date the method
employed has been to search for the dominant factor in each
pericope. This method was pioneered by Ivan Panin over a 
hundred years ago.

Ivan had a disadvantage in that he had no access to a computer
or machine readable texts. But he also had an advantage in that 
he could do a much more intelligent analysis of the text. In 
particular, Ivan could count articles, nouns, verbs, words that
were masculine or feminine and so on. My scoring program 
cannot count these things because it can't identify them.

All excuses aside, the scoring program is not working. In fact
it often gives the highest score to the deliberately corrupted
66Tanach. This is obviously wrong!

I'm putting the programs on the internet in the hope that someone
smarter than myself can rewrite ScoresBySection.icn and 
ScoresSummary.icn using a better scoring technique.

I would like to point out that an enormous amount of work has
already been done, and can be reused. The reusable parts are 
what I call it the infrastructure and the superstructure. The 
infrastructure is the collection of Tanachs that have been 
methodically transliterated and proofed. The superstructure is 
the programming that allows the user to processes the entire 
Tanach in one pass.

I hope someone will take advantage of this reusable code!

How to run an analysis of the Tanach:

First of all you really should install Unicon. I have had
instances of executable programs reporting a missing .dll on
computers that did not have Icon/Unicon installed. Get it from
this URL: http://unicon.sourceforge.net/

You can also get a Unicon book from the same URL.

Second, there is a text file called PericopeList.txt. This has
been completed for the book of Genesis. It needs to be completed
for any portion of the Tanach that you wish to analyze.

Third, run GenRunScripts.exe. This will generate all the scripts
necessary to do the analysis. (If you change the name of any 
program, GenRunScripts.icn must be modified accordingly!)

Finally, from a command window navigate to the appropriate 
directory and then run the script named RunEverything.bat. In its
current configuration, on my computer, it gets done in less than 
an hour.

ano_nimus7035@yahoo.com
