This folder contains programs for reformatting the Masoretic text which
is available from Karaite-Korner.

As usual I've given you a five verse sample which you can use to check out
the program, KaraiteUnicodeTranslit02.icn.

You can download the full Tanach at the following URL:

http://www.karaite-korner.org/downloads/tanach.zip

Working with this text is much easier than some of the others because there 
is no need to save multiple web pages and then reformat them and piece 
them all together.

The zip file contains tanach2.0.doc. You will need to open this file with 
Libre Office Writer, and then save it in UTF-8 format with the name 
"tanach2.0_UTF8.txt". If you havent done so already, You can get Libre Office 
from:

http://www.libreoffice.org/download/

Two problems:

1) tanach2.0.doc has a missing colon at the end of Nehemiah 6:8. No problem! 
   The transliterate program "KaraiteUnicodeTranslit02.icn " fixes this error.
   But fixing this problem introduces a new problem.
2) If you download a newer version of the Karaite Tanach it may have this 
   error fixed. It may also have new errors. If this happens, fix the icon
   program, or send me an email. If I'm still alive, I'll fix it.

The program will produce several output files. You can delete the files that
start with "Temp". There's also a file named Tanach2.0_UTF8Repaired.txt. This
is the input file with the missing colon replaced. You can safely delete this
file.

There's a statistics file you may want to look at. Then there are two Tanachs 
that are produced. KaraiteTanach.txt is the Tanach with books in Karaite
order. KaraiteTanachReordered.txt is the Tanach with books in standard
Jewish order. Note: You should use the Tanach in standard order when "Running
The Numbers" or "Double Checking The Factors" (folders 10 & 11).

Some checks you can do:

1) Open your transliterated Tanach with NotePad. Use the Find command to 
   search for parentheses or vertical bars, "()|". If you have any of these
   you have problems.
2) Use a hex editor to search Tanach2.0_UTF8Repaired.txt for two colons in a 
   row, "::". If you find this you have problems. (This should only happen if
   you downloaded a newer version than tanach2.0.doc. They might have
   fixed Nehemiah 6:8.)
3) Check that Nehemia 6 has the right number of verses.

Enjoy!

ano_nimus7035@yahoo.com









