Welcome to the Tanach Project!

The Tanach is the Jewish Bible. Christians call it the Old Testament. The goal
of the Tanach Project is to discover the Hebrew text of the original Tanach
using numerical means.

This folder, SamplePrograms, sets forth the project in a step by step 
tutorial fashion. Work your way through the examples, and you will soon 
have a grasp of all the concepts. If you're intrigued by what you see, 
you might even want to try your hand at resolving a few variant reading. 

This is your invitation. Come join us.

------------------------------------------------

I wanted to wait until the project was much further along before releasing it
into the public domain. Alas, my health is rapidly failing. If I wait too long, 
this work may never see the light of day. So I'm releasing it in its current 
state with the intention of continuing to refine and expand it.

This is God's project not mine. Once I'm gone someone else will take up His 
work. Perhaps you will be that someone.

To God be the glory! 1 Corinthians 10:31

January 2013

------------------------------------------------
January 30, 2013

This has been a rough week health wise. I'm now rushing to get as much as
possible of the Tanach Project on the web before I'm gone. What remains 
to be done?

1) I'm currently working on the Snunit texts found in folder 05.

2) Next comes the Karaite-Korner texts in folder 06.

3) After these I have four Koren texts to compare. I plan to find the 
   places where the four texts disagree, and then resolve the differences
   (i.e. remove watermarking) using the printed Koren Tanach. I can't 
   include a folder for the Koren text since it is a commercial product.

4) When all the texts are complete it's time to start producing the Numeric 
   Hebrew Tanach. Here are the steps as I envision them:

A) Choose a portion of the text that deals with a single topic. Such portions
   are called a Pericope.

B) Run the program from folder 10 on this Periocpe using your favorite 
   text. If the numbers look promissing, add the same verses from all the
   other texts, and run the program again.

   If the numbers don't look promissing, you can try a different text, or
   try running all the texts at once, or try changing the start and end 
   points for your chosen pericope.

   It's a trial and error process, but one that yields the original text of
   the Tanach as well as the pericope boundaries.

C) Run the program in folder 11 to double check your work, and obtain
   the title for your pericope.

D) Add the validated text to the Numeric Hebrew Tanach.

5) Repeat steps A) through D) as many times as necessary to complete the
   entire Tanach. Put the results on the internet as soon as each pericope
   is completed.

6) When the Torah is done, it's time to make a Torah that has no spaces, 
   and put it in folder 30 for Bible Codes Researchers. When the entire 
   Tanach is complete, a no-spaces Tanach should be created and placed
   in folder 30 as well.

It's a lot of work, but it's the Lord's project, and he will call someone or a
group of people to finish it.



