In this example we will work on the BHS codex i.e. The Biblia Hebraica 
Stuttgartensia. The BHS and the WLC (Westminster Leningrad Codex) are 
both derived from the Leningrad codex. The Leningrad codex is itself an
example of the Massoretic text. There are two primary examples of the
Massoretic text. They are The Leningrad Codex, and The Aleppo Codex. Jews
tend to favor the Aleppo while Christians favor the Leningrad.

You can get the BHS codex directly from:

http://ccat.sas.upenn.edu/gopher/text/religion/biblical/

Actually you can't just download the text. This site contains a license
that you must sign. After you sign the license, the Center for 
Computer Analysis of Texts will presumably get back to you.

There is another way to get the BHS text, but first lets do our little
five line example.

>>>>>>>>>> Insert instructions here. (This program hasn't been written yet.)

If all went well you should have the first five verses of Genesis in a
file named 01_Gen.txt.

Now I'm sure you're chomping at the bit to download and convert the entire
BHS, but hold your horses! First you need to "count the cost." If you 
obtain the text directly from CCAT, you're on your own. I don't have a 
program to give you.

If you get the text from the web, you're looking at a couple days of 
cutting and pasteing text from the web site to a word processor. This is 
doing it the hard way, but there are some valuable lessons that can be
learned by doing things the hard way. You'll learn some more formatting
and transliteration techniques, and you'll gain a valuable skill that can
be leveraged in the future to obtain other texts that are not otherwise
available.

It's your choice.

If you're still reading, you must believe in the maxim, "No pain, No gain."
So let's get started. Go to the following URL:

http://unbound.biola.edu/

In Step 1) Select "Hebrew OT:BHS(Consonants Only)".
In Step 2) Select "Genesis".
In Step 3) Click the "Search" button.

Put your mouse pointer just to the left of "Genesis 1 [Commentary]", hold 
down the left mouse button, and drag down and to the right until all ten
chapters are selected. (If you go too far, just back up. This takes a 
little practice.) Now copy the selected text with Control-C.

Now that you have the first ten chapters of Genesis in your clipboard, we
need a place to put this valuable text. I've tried several approaches, and
I've found one that actually works. It requires Libre Office. What? You 
don't have Libre Office? Well, go get it. I can wait. Here's the URL:

https://www.libreoffice.org/download

Now that you have Libre Office installed, use Windows Explorer to navigate
to the folder where this ReadMe is stored. In that folder, right-click and
create a new file named "Genesis" of type "Open Document Text". Now 
double-click on Genesis.odt to open it with Open Office Writer.

Paste your valuable text into this new file. If the clipboard got wiped out
during the Libre Office install, just re-copy the first ten chapters of 
Genesis, and then paste it into Genesis.odt. Wait a few seconds for the 
paste to get done. The text may "jump" as many as three times before the
process is complete. 

Take note of where the cursor finally lands. It should be at the very 
bottom of the text, and all the way to the left. If there are extra spaces,
use the "backspace" key to get the cursor all the way to the left. (You 
want the transition between chapters to be consistent so the conversion
program won't encounter any difficulties.)

Be careful not to copy any extraneous text such as "Search Limited to 10 
Chapters." You don't want that in your Tanach!

Now go back to the web site. At the bottom of the first ten chapters is a 
button labeled "Next". Click this button, and you will go to the next ten
chapters. Repeat the previous steps for these ten chapters. Keep doing this
for the entire book of Genesis. When you get to the end of Genesis, there 
will no longer be a button labeled "Next".

Now it's time to save our work. This is where the pain of installing Libre
Office is going to pay off. You see, Libre Office pasted the Hebrew text
into the document as a table. This means that the Hebrew text will be in
a separate column from the verse numbers, and no formatting will be lost or
corrupted!

Click the save button in Libre Office. This will save the book of Genesis
as an Open Document Text (.odt) file. Next click "File" and "Save As".
When the "Save As" dialogue appears, change the "Save as type:" to 
"Text Encoded". Then click the "Save" button. 

After a few seconds the "Ascii Filter Options" dialogue will appear. In the
drop down box for Character Set select "Unicode (UTF-8)". For Paragraph 
Break select "CR & LF". Then click the "OK" button.

Now you have two files: Genesis.odt, and Genesis.txt. Open the Genesis.txt
file with NotePad. If all went well, you should have a consistently
formatted text with readable Hebrew characters. This file will be easy to
convert to a transliterated form.

At this point you should try running the sample program on the entire book
of Genesis that you just collected from the web. If the conversion of 
Genesis worked, you can move forward with the rest of the Tanach at your 
own pace.


